README.md, before:

# UE4EngineerTest by Abhishek Verma
----------------------------------------
The project requires the users to choose one of the two robots as pawns in their game modes. The two pawns are SnapshotRobot and SnapShotRobot2_BP . 
The simulation variables can be altered using the SnapshotRobotController.

Performance Improvement Pointers
-----------------------------------
The project was implemented to fulfill the core requirements of the test. Some of the areas do extensive computations that can be obtimized:
- The function that finds all the actors in the viewport can be improved. Currently, the frustum check goes through all the primitives to compare their bounds. This can be improved by placing putting render queues based on primitives entering and exiting view frustums. 
- The file I/O can be run on a seperate thread. This was not done mainly because the test scene was not that dense and the wait time between captures was long enough for it to not matter. 
- The spheres instantiated can be offloaded to the GPU by instantiating the sphere mesh rather than creating actors every capture.  


# UE4EngineerTest
This project currently runs on UE4 4.25.4

----------------------------------------------
## Instructions
### Setup

Fork this repository before cloning.
Once forked, feel free to submit to it as much as you'd like.
When completed, send us an email and a link to your fork of the repository.

### Create a robot that randomly navigates an environment.

- The pawn should move forward from its starting location anywhere in the map by 10 units at a time until it 'hits' something (until an object is less than 15 units away from it in its forward direction), then rotate left or right a little (randomly, between 5 and 25 degrees), and try moving forward again, repeating the process indefinitely
- The pawn's starting location should be 10 units above the floor; you don't have to enforce this in code, just drop it in and move it up by 10 units
- Rotating and moving forward can happen discretely and don't need to be animated (i.e. move 10 units or rotate n degrees all at once, with every frame representing a new rotation or position)
- In between moves, wait for one second before proceeding to the next move. Where and how this is implemented (C++, BP node graph) is up to you.
- You can assume that the starting Z location of the pawn will always be its Z location (no downward line checks and floor placement necessary)

### Have the robot take pictures and output information

- After every time the pawn moves forward or rotates, take a screenshot and save it to the saved folder, incrementing the name for each image taken. ie: image_1.png, image_2.png, image_3.png, etc..
- In addition to the screenshot, output a text file with a list of the actor names that are in the viewport when the image is taken
  - Each image should have a corresponding text file. ie: image_1.png and image_1_actors.txt
  - An example folder structure would be the following:
    - Project/Saved/
      - Data/
        - image_1.png
        - image_1_actors.txt
        - image_2.png
        - image_2_actors.txt
        
        
The collision check against objects and rotation of the pawn should happen on the C++ side. The easiest way to set this up would likely be a C++ Blueprint with the C++ functionality handling line traces for obstruction checks and choice of new direction called from the blueprint's node graph during tick. Please use UE4 conventions and frameworks for C++ implementation.
**Online research, UE4 documentation, Stackoverflow, etc., are all fair game. Google to your heart's content :)**

When hitting Play In Editor, the viewport should be from the pov of the robot, and it should begin navigating the environment and doing the following:
- Move or turn
- Take an image 
- Write a text file of all actors visible in the viewport
- Wait one second (This can happen asynchronously during the image taking and text file writing)
- Move/turn again and repeat loop

### Create a second robot ###

- This robot should be implemented in blueprints as a child of the previous robot.
- This robot should behave the same way as robot 1, but it should also drop a sphere actor into the level where it is every time it takes an image.

***Some things to note***
- Performance is not a concern for this. Feel free to get all actors in the viewport as naively as you would like, and if you have ideas on how to make it more performant you can just let us know your thoughts when you submit your final project.
- We are also not perfect, because of that you may be unclear on how to proceed due to something unclear in the instructions. If that happens, just let us know and we would be happy to clarify what we are expecting.
- The first and second robots are not expected to run at the same time.

We have created a map in the project called `AIReverieMap.umap` in the `AIReverie` folder. Feel free to use that map or create your own.
If you create your own, ensure it has a variety of objects in it.

A game mode has also been created and set as the default in the project, which can be found at `AIReverie/BP_AIReverie_GameMode`

Please email us with any questions, we understand that this is a different use case than you may be used to and the instructions might not be clear. We are happy to clarify anything.

Commit message:

This commit adds an instruction to generate visual studio files.

README.md, after:

# UE4EngineerTest by Abhishek Verma
----------------------------------------
The project requires the users to choose one of the two robots as pawns in their game modes. The two pawns are SnapshotRobot and SnapShotRobot2_BP . 
The simulation variables can be altered using the SnapshotRobotController.
The visual studio files can be generated by right clicking the uproject file. This will help debug the project.

Performance Improvement Pointers
-----------------------------------
The project was implemented to fulfill the core requirements of the test. Some of the areas do extensive computations that can be obtimized:
- The function that finds all the actors in the viewport can be improved. Currently, the frustum check goes through all the primitives to compare their bounds. This can be improved by placing putting render queues based on primitives entering and exiting view frustums. 
- The file I/O can be run on a seperate thread. This was not done mainly because the test scene was not that dense and the wait time between captures was long enough for it to not matter. 
- The spheres instantiated can be offloaded to the GPU by instantiating the sphere mesh rather than creating actors every capture.  


# UE4EngineerTest
This project currently runs on UE4 4.25.4

----------------------------------------------
## Instructions
### Setup

Fork this repository before cloning.
Once forked, feel free to submit to it as much as you'd like.
When completed, send us an email and a link to your fork of the repository.

### Create a robot that randomly navigates an environment.

- The pawn should move forward from its starting location anywhere in the map by 10 units at a time until it 'hits' something (until an object is less than 15 units away from it in its forward direction), then rotate left or right a little (randomly, between 5 and 25 degrees), and try moving forward again, repeating the process indefinitely
- The pawn's starting location should be 10 units above the floor; you don't have to enforce this in code, just drop it in and move it up by 10 units
- Rotating and moving forward can happen discretely and don't need to be animated (i.e. move 10 units or rotate n degrees all at once, with every frame representing a new rotation or position)
- In between moves, wait for one second before proceeding to the next move. Where and how this is implemented (C++, BP node graph) is up to you.
- You can assume that the starting Z location of the pawn will always be its Z location (no downward line checks and floor placement necessary)

### Have the robot take pictures and output information

- After every time the pawn moves forward or rotates, take a screenshot and save it to the saved folder, incrementing the name for each image taken. ie: image_1.png, image_2.png, image_3.png, etc..
- In addition to the screenshot, output a text file with a list of the actor names that are in the viewport when the image is taken
  - Each image should have a corresponding text file. ie: image_1.png and image_1_actors.txt
  - An example folder structure would be the following:
    - Project/Saved/
      - Data/
        - image_1.png
        - image_1_actors.txt
        - image_2.png
        - image_2_actors.txt
        
        
The collision check against objects and rotation of the pawn should happen on the C++ side. The easiest way to set this up would likely be a C++ Blueprint with the C++ functionality handling line traces for obstruction checks and choice of new direction called from the blueprint's node graph during tick. Please use UE4 conventions and frameworks for C++ implementation.
**Online research, UE4 documentation, Stackoverflow, etc., are all fair game. Google to your heart's content :)**

When hitting Play In Editor, the viewport should be from the pov of the robot, and it should begin navigating the environment and doing the following:
- Move or turn
- Take an image 
- Write a text file of all actors visible in the viewport
- Wait one second (This can happen asynchronously during the image taking and text file writing)
- Move/turn again and repeat loop

### Create a second robot ###

- This robot should be implemented in blueprints as a child of the previous robot.
- This robot should behave the same way as robot 1, but it should also drop a sphere actor into the level where it is every time it takes an image.

***Some things to note***
- Performance is not a concern for this. Feel free to get all actors in the viewport as naively as you would like, and if you have ideas on how to make it more performant you can just let us know your thoughts when you submit your final project.
- We are also not perfect, because of that you may be unclear on how to proceed due to something unclear in the instructions. If that happens, just let us know and we would be happy to clarify what we are expecting.
- The first and second robots are not expected to run at the same time.

We have created a map in the project called `AIReverieMap.umap` in the `AIReverie` folder. Feel free to use that map or create your own.
If you create your own, ensure it has a variety of objects in it.

A game mode has also been created and set as the default in the project, which can be found at `AIReverie/BP_AIReverie_GameMode`

Please email us with any questions, we understand that this is a different use case than you may be used to and the instructions might not be clear. We are happy to clarify anything.
